itis important for the pre-med student to recognize that admission to @ U.S. mesial schoo is extremely
‘competitive. Therefore tis essential thal tho student stve to obain the highest grades possible in all
‘ourtes, but especialy inthe courses that are pre-med requirements. For admission to an alopathic
‘school, a GPA of at last 3.6 is usually required, and for admission to an osteopathic school, a GPA of at
least 34 fe usualy required

 

2. DENTISTRY
Im order tobe considered for admission to a U.S. dental school, the applicant should have satisfactory
‘completed the requicements fora bachelor's degree with a major in any fold as well asthe ‘predental”
‘requirements. In addition, a score on the DAT examination must be submited, evidence of volunteer or
‘esearch workin a dental environments highly recommended, and letters of recommendation must be
submited,

 

Pre-Dental Requirements
For the most par, the pre-dental requirements are identical tothe pre-modical requirements described in
section 1. Recenty, 2 numberof dental schools have added courses to their admission requirements,
‘ome ofthese courses are Biochemisty, Anatomy, Physiology, and Microbiology. Therelor, students are
lrged to check with the individual dental schools to confi that he or she is fuliling the requirements for
{hat particular schoo.

‘deal, students should enrol in al prerequisite science courses at Brookiyn College, regardless if taken
In High School for AP ered. Some dental schools do nol accept APICLEP credits, even ithe student
Undergraduate Institution allowed them fo be transferred onto their anscip as calege cedis. The
student is urged to check the requirements fer each specific dental school to which they may want to
‘poly.

In the summer folowing SEMESTER 6, the pre-dental student wil normally take the DAT examination (90,
to wi adoa.org and look for information onthe OAT exam) and submit an application for admission to
‘ental school Applications for dental school admission are handled by a centralized omline application
service, AADSAS,

Letters of recommendation are a very important pat ofthe aplication process fr dental school
‘admission tis imperative thatthe applicant Kenly at least two science professors and one non-science
professor as recommender In addon, alter from at least one dentist that knows the student well fom
the students ouside aces should be submited, The recommender letier should be sent othe Pre-
Health Professions Advisement office, where it wil be inserted as part ofa leer packet that is sent to
‘AADSAS.

 

3. PHARMACY
Essential all US. pharmacy schools offer a PharmD degree, which requires 6 years of study ater high
school. Te fist wo years involve ‘pre-professional studies” and the remaining four yeas involve
“professional stiches” The Brooklyn College student who desies a career in pharmacy can apply for &
transfer to a pharmacy school before he or she obtains a hacholo's degree, or the student can fst obtain
the bachelor's degree and then apply to pharmacy school. In ether case, ithe student has completed the
pre-professional prion ofthe pharmacy school program al Brooklyn College, and has obtained a score
fn the PCAT exam, the student can apply for admission to pharmacy school and, accepted, will
‘usually have to complete the remaining four years ofthe professional program.

Ccertaln pharmacy schools have accelerated programs in which the transfer studont can completo al the
requirements forthe PharmD In less than Tout yous. Admission to the professional parton of @ PharmD
program a8 a vansfer student is highly competiive. The student should strive to obtain the best grades
possible in the courses listed under “pre-pharmacy requirements.” In addition, @ good score on the PCAT
's essential for the transfer student

 

‘The student who wishes to eventually transfer to @ pharmacy schoo! should gain some experience
working in a pharmacy as an assistant.
